Getting Started- Starting with the Basic Welcome to Tigersheet! Tigersheet is a no code platform that enables the creation of custom applications and allows process automation for any type of business or enterprise. It lets you build your own business applications without relying on a developer.Unlike a traditional spreadsheet or business management system, Tigersheet gives you the power of a super flexible no code platform to connect your information –and design the perfect workflow-all in one place.Now you know what Tigersheet can do, but you still might not know where to begin- so let’s start with what you see when you first sign in to Tigersheet. 
Sheets are the very foundation of any app that you develop inside Tigersheet, hence it is important to first begin here.  1. To begin creating a new application from  , click on the icon.   2. Give your application a suitable name, e.g.: Lead Tracker, CRM, Order management system, etc. and Click ‘Save’-Keep the name relatively short.-Avoid special characters such as *? /: # etc.3. Click on the option “Create new Tigersheet” and select “create sheet from  ”.4. Give your sheet a name. Example: Leads, if you are building a lead tracker, you will be creating a sheet to store all the details related to lead in a Lead sheet. Once done, Click Create.
If you have data housed in Excel spreadsheets, then you can benefit from Tigersheet’s importing capability. This allows you to bring your Excel record to the platform while saving a lot of time and effort that can otherwise go in creating a sheet from  .1. To create a sheet from Excel Import, Click on the option ‘Import from excel’ and chose a file (CSV, XLVS formats only) from your computer.  2. Make sure to give your sheet a name. Once done, press “Create”.3. The system will show a preview of the sheet that is being imported and will give you options to select the worksheet, header row, columns you wish to import and define their types.4. You can choose to import data from that sheet as well. If you don't want to import data but just wish to create the structure, check the 'don’t import data’.
 In order to get access to Tigersheet, you need to add users in the user account sheet.* Each user’s needs to be given access for each sheet under the desired role. By default, none of the sheets are accessible to the user.1. Click on the option “Manage Users”. This will take you to a User Account Sheet.2. To begin adding users, click “Add new user” and enter details such as First Name and Last Name, Email Address and Password.3. Set the status as “Active” for each user entry you are making in the user account sheet4. You can even add more fields such as department, Role, City, etc. for your users.
1. Go to the sheet you want to give access to a user. 2. Click on the ‘Roles’ button. Click on ‘select’ or add an email address in the textbox, this will give a list of users that you can select from a drop-down menu.3. Once you have selected the users, click ‘Save’
When you have several team members on board, it becomes imperative to protect sensitive data. Tigersheet helps you ensure the confidentiality of such information with role-based access settings. You can configure these to make certain that only particular users can launch certain tasks and perform specific actions.
Understanding Roles and Permissions* Tigersheet provides two predefined roles for users- Admin and Standard. Besides these, the admin can add more roles such as ‘Sales Staff’, ‘Marketing Staff’, ‘Content Team’ etc.* Each user belongs to a role and each role has specific permission associated with it.* Using permissions, you can hide certain records from users, disable edit or delete, hide certain columns and so on.
View Permissions: This defines what rows/columns are visible to the user. There are three options to explore within ‘Can View’, these include:* All rows: Users of this role can view all rows* Rows created by them: Users can view only those rows that have been created by them.* Rows based on some criteria: One can add various conditions here using AND/OR operators.  For example: While creating a lead tracker, you would want the sales staff to only see the leads that have been assigned to them.
Column visibility: You can restrict access to some fields/ columns - E.g. internal technical team does not need to view Sales/pricing/ payments related info.To restrict column visibility, select “Hide some columns” and chose the column name you want to hide.
1. To add a new row in Tigersheet, click “New Entry”2. The mandatory fields are marked in Red for which an entry is a must.3. Once done, Click ‘Save’ and ‘Add New’.How to Edit a Row?1. To edit an existing row of records, click on the ID in the row and edit the fields you want to change.2. Alternatively, a row can be edited from the main sheet view by double-clicking on that field in the row
. Select a row or multiple rows you want to delete using the checkbox.2. Bulk Edit, as well as delete options, appear on the top.Note: There is no way to restore a record that has been deleted. 
 Using Bulk Edit Features, multiple records can be updated or deleted.2. Select the multiple records you want to edit/delete using the checkbox.  One can even use filters to navigate down to specific records.3. Click on ‘Bulk Edit’. In case the column is lookup, the source column will be displayed. 
 To add a comment to a row, click on the ID number to find a comment icon. Click on the icon.2.  This will open a comment window, where you can add a new comment and click post.
1. Click on the checkbox against the row/record you want to print. 2. Click on ‘Edit’3. This will open the record. Click on Print. 4. You will be able to view the print preview of the row.5. Click on Print or Save it as PDF as per your need.
Grouping: Record can be grouped by a column/ field. E.g.: Here all the Leads are grouped based on the salesperson (lead owners) assigned to them.
FilteringEvery column has a filter box that is visible under its name.  A user can enter the filter parameters and only the records matching the criteria will be displayed.Note: Filters can be applied to multiple columns. E.g.: Here filters are applied to Date
SearchingYou can search for a specific record by typing them in the search box visible under every column name. 
The export feature can be used to export the current view/report or sheet data into an excel (XLSX) or CSV file.1. Create the view/report/ sheet with the data filtered/ searched you wish to export.2. Click on the Export button3. The visible rows will be exported in an Excel / CSV file.4. If there are sub-sheets in the sheet, they will be exported in another tab with the main sheet identifier. You can click on the main sheet identifier, you check the records for that sub-sheet.
Tigersheet provides a Mail Merge feature through which you can send bulk emails to clients and can even run email campaigns.To send emails to multiple clients at once:1. Filter the records to whom the email needs to be sent. 2. Select all the records by clicking the checkbox next to each record.3. A mail merge option will be visible on the top. Click on this button.
Configuration Options:Send Mail:From field - Connect to your email account. You can connect your email address - Gmail / Google Apps / your own SMTP account. Once you have successfully added your email address, you can also choose which user groups this email address can be shared. To field: To field will display the fields which have email address fields setup. E.g. - Employees, Clients, Prospects.CC: You can add any other email address directly here. This email address need not be associated with the users of the current sheet.Subject Line: Enter the subject Line and create the template. Body: You can customize the template by using variables captured in Tigersheet. E.g. - Dear <student name> using Insert Variable dropdown.You can also choose from an existing template created and saved in Tigersheet earlier. You can create the template in the Draft folder of your email account and access that template from here. If you select from Gmail draft, the dropdown will display the Drafts emails subject line. You can choose one and the Template Body will display the Draft email’s body.You can click on Source and draft the mail in HTML.Preview: You can Preview the template. If you have not entered From email address, Preview will not be displayed. Preview will be displayed for each recipient.
Schedule later: You can schedule to send this mailer at a later date and time.Save Template: You can save this template in case you will be reusing it in the future to run more campaigns.Campaign Name: You can add a Campaign name for this mailer for tracking the number of emails sent, Read / Unread status and Number of times it was read.
Manage Accounts * You can view the email address connected. * You can choose to delete or disconnect or reconnect these accounts.* You can also specify which user roles should be permissions to send emails from this email address in Tigersheet.
Manage Templates  * You can see different templates saved earlier. * You can delete the template.* You can choose to pick this template for running the current mailer.
No matter what industry you are in, web contact forms are essential when creating your website or application. Additionally, the information you put on your contact page is crucial as well. Using Tigersheet you can create web forms and place them up on your website or application.1. To begin creating a new web form, Click on the Settings Icon  C:\Users\Priyam Tolani\Desktop\Tigersheet help screenshots\settings.png   and navigate to “Web Forms”.2. Click on “Create new Web form”. This will open a window where you need to give your form a heading. E.g. : If you are creating a web form to capture lead information, you can name it as “Contact Us”3. Now add the field from the left that you want to place in your web form such as Name, Company, and Designation, etc. and click ‘Save’.4. You will be able to see a new web form ‘Contact Us’. If you wish to  place this form on your website, Click ‘Embed Code’5. Copy the code and embed in your website. You can also modify the styles to suit your website.
The import feature can be used to import your existing data from excel or csv into your Tigersheet.1. To begin importing data, Click on the option ‘Import’2. Select a file from your computer/local drive and click upload.Note: The column names in your excel or csv should match exactly with the Tigersheet column names. If some of the column names don’t match, those columns will not be imported.3.  Once the upload is complete, a preview of the data will be visible. Click on Import to proceed.4. The system will start importing the data. It will validate data before saving it. If there are any validation errors (e.g. if a Tigersheet column is marked as unique but duplicate entries are present in your import file), those rows will not be imported. 5. After the data is imported, the number of rows that were successfully imported and the number of rows that failed validations will be shown.
Columns/Fields Related OperationsHow to add a new columns?1. To create a new column in Tigersheet, Click on   C:\Users\Priyam Tolani\Desktop\Tigersheet help screenshots\add column icon.png 2. Enter Column Name and Chose a column type. Example: If you are adding a new column ‘Name’, the column type would be ‘Text’. 3. Once done, Click ‘Save’
1. Is Mandatory - If checked, the user would be forced to select an option before he can save the form.2. Is Unique - if checked, the user cannot enter a duplicate value for this field. E.g. - Email address, phone numbers, GST numbers will be unique to each client.
 sub-sheet column type allows you to store a table of data within a single row. In simple words, a sub-sheet is like a sheet inside a sheet.1. To create a Subsheet column, Enter a column name and Chose column type as ‘Sub-sheet’.2. Next, enter the column names and column types for your sub sheet and click ‘Save’.Example: A company can provide various products to its clients. The parent sheet can have columns such as Product Name (Text), Quote (Text), Items (Subsheet with columns such as Item Details, Price, Amount, Quantity, etc.)
The lookup field is one of the most powerful features of Tigersheet.  It allows you to establish a link between two sheets. Lookup lets you fetch values from other sheets.1. To create a lookup column, click on “Add Column” and chose column type as Lookup.E.g.: A lookup column ‘Product’ is created in Lead Sheet (parent sheet) which will fetch values from Product (separate sheet).2. While creating a lookup column, the system will ask you to choose a source sheet from where the values for the column are to be fetched. E.g.: Since here the values for lookup column ‘product’ are being fetched from the ‘Products and Services’ Sheet, it is chosen as the source sheet.3. Once the lookup column is successfully created, go back to your parent sheet and simply click on the column and this will give you a drop down of values being fetched from the source sheet.Example: Here when we click on ‘Product column’ present in Lead Sheet, it gives a drop down of all product and services that are saved in the Product and Services Sheet.
 1. Click on the column name you want to delete. 2. Scroll down and click ‘Delete this column’.
1. Click on the column name you want to Edit.2. Scroll down and click ‘Edit this column’.3. Change column name or type as per your need and click ‘Save’.
. Select the column name you want to hide. 2. Click on ‘Hide this column’. 1. Alternatively, you can click on the ‘eye icon’  C:\Users\Priyam Tolani\Desktop\Tigersheet help screenshots\triggers\eye.png   present on the top right corner.2. Chose the column you want to show/hide and click on update.
Tigersheet has powerful report generation capabilities, including grouping items, generating pivot tables and charts. All your reports can be saved and shared with other users, along with drill-down filter capability. 
Such insightful reports will not only give your business a better insight but will also help you identify bottlenecks, view how your teams are performing, and allocate budget and other resources effectively.
User can create their own Views by Grouping, Filtering, and Hiding Columns, etc.1. To create a view, click ‘Create View’, on the left panel under the Reports option and chose the type of report/view you want to create.2. Under the columns section, chose the column you want to add in your view by ticking the checkbox.e.g.: Suppose you want to create a view where you want to display all the leads based on the salesperson assigned to them.  Go to the grouping section and chose Group by ‘Leads. leadOwner’3. The view appears on the left-hand side under the default view.4. You can make any report/view as a default view for you by clicking on the Pin icon next to that view/report.
A pivot report is a table which is used to store the summary of a certain data set in a condensed manner.Pivot reports are useful to show counts, sums, the average for different groups. For example, Show the totals No. of opportunities at each sales stage for each salesperson, or show the count of open opportunities at each sales stage for each salesperson.1. Click on Reports2. Click on Pivot Reports.
Configuration options - Similar to Pivot reports in Excel, you can drag and down or click on the parameters for Rows and ColumnsYou can also select for Aggregate fields.
1. Create the view/report you wish to export2. Click on the Export button3. The visible rows will be exported in an Excel / CSV file.4. If there are sub-sheets in the sheet, they will be exported in another tab with the main sheet identifier. You can click on the main sheet identifier, you check the records for that sub-sheet.
Kanban report displays the records in a Card view. 1. Under the Reports Section visible on the left side panel, Click on Kanban Report.2. Click on Select Column. You can select a field e.g. Status to organize the records. The view will display the categorization.3. Click on Card text. You can add the fields - these will appear as Title.
A timeline is a type of chart that visually shows a series of events in order over a linear timescale. The power of a timeline is that it is graphical, which makes it easy to understand critical milestones, such as the progress of a project schedule.Let us consider an example of a hotel management system, where the hotel manager creates a timeline view of his guests' check-in and check-outs. 1. To create a timeline view, Click on ‘Timeline’ under Reports.2. Configure your timeline by choosing a Start and End date.3. Select column names you want to display on y-axis in the timeline chart.4. You can even customize the timeline view by choosing event color and text.5. Once done, Click ‘Save’.
Charts are an excellent way to condense large amounts of information into easy-to-understand formats that clearly highlight the points you’d like to make. Tigersheet lets you create different types of charts such as pie chart, bar graph, funnel chart, etc. from your stored information. 1. Click on ‘Chart’ option under the Reports Section present at the left-hand side panel.2. Choose the type of chart you want to create and configure it by choosing the appropriate column for x and y-axis.Example: Here is a bar chart that shows the number of leads in an organization based on their status. Here is another pie chart that shows leads by status
Triggers and WorkflowsTigersheet is designed to enable you to skip over redundant workflows and leave them to the system to finish. That is why it has trigger-based workflows. These automatically complete tasks whenever an event is caused to occur.* Admin can define user actions like adding a record, editing a record, etc. * Admin can then define what should happen when this action happens.
With Tigersheet you can send email notifications as well as reminders to ensure that for every update, your team receives notifications through email. Onscreen reminders are also available for them to keep up with happenings whenever they are on the Tigersheet interface.Example: Let us consider an example, where every salesperson in the organization should be notified about a follow-up email 10 minutes prior to the actual follow up time with the lead assigned to him. This can be done by adding a time-based trigger. 1. Click on Workflow/Triggers and move down to ‘Time-based’ option.2. Click on Add Action. 3. Choose ‘Send Email’, under the list of actions available on the left-hand side.4. Chose the specified time value and the time column based on which the email reminder is to be sent.(Here since, the sales manager wants to send an email reminder 10 minutes prior to the actual follow up time. The value is chosen 10 minutes before Next Follow Up.)5. Fill in the email template entries such as To, Subject, Body with the appropriate information and once done Click ‘Save’.
Example: As soon as a new lead entry is added in Lead Sheet, the lead owner assigned to that lead should get an email notification with details such as Company name, contact person, email, phone number, etc.1. Click on Workflow/Triggers2. On the left panel, click ‘On Row Add’3. Click on Add Action. A new window will open which will ask you ‘What do you want to perform’. Chose to Send Email.4. Send Email - An email will be triggered. The email template is 100% customizable.* From: You can specify the from / Sender email address. You can add your Gmail or Google Apps address. You can also configure an SMTP account.* Recipients - You can specify the recipient of the email. Tigersheet will display the fields which are set up as emails or have lookups to another sheet that have emails. In this case, the email is being sent to the concerned lead owner in the organization.* Notification Type - You can choose whether the notification should be sent as Email, Desktop or App notification.* Subject: You can add the Subject line and the body of the email.* Body: You can copy-paste from Word document or create the template in the editor. You can insert the variables captured in the current sheet as well as lookups to another sheet. 5. Once the email template has been created. Click Save.
Set the fields of the current row - This action will update the fields in the current record. E.g. generate the invoice number in a specified format when a new invoice is added.
This action will modify/update records in another sheet.E.g. When the order is marked as dispatched in Order Management Sheet, update the inventory in Inventory sheet.row/record
You can create custom Actions buttons to quickly execute the actions on user input.  The buttons can be configured for each row/record.For Example*  Admin can create an Action button - Email Invoice to Client. When a user clicks on this button, an email with the defined template will be sent to the client.* Admin can add a Create Order button. When a user clicks on this button, a new order will be created for this client.Go to workflow/Triggers. Click on ‘Add Action Button’
Button Text - Name of the buttonWhere do you want to access this action button from - * In Actions Menu for each row - It will appear as a dropdown under Settings icon for each row/record.* As button for each row - It will appear as a button for each row.* In Bulk Action Menu - It will appear as a Bulk menu option when you select one or multiple rows.* Button Identifier - This gets set to the name of the button by default. In special cases, where you wish to have two actions buttons with the same name for users, but doing different actions - admin can add different names in Button identifier.*  Permissions - User roles who can see this action - Specify the user roles who can view this action button.* Criteria - Disallow this action button if - * This is a very powerful feature. You can specify the conditions under which this action button should not be visible. E.g. - If the status is approved by Manager, only then salesperson should see Email Invoice to Client action button.* You can either hide the button or just show it as Inactive.